Step 1 – Making the Batter
Step 2 – Baking Eggless Chocolate Cake
Step 3 – Making Chocolate Frosting
Step 4 – Icing the Eggless Cake

MAKING BATTER-- First grease a round baking pan of 7.5 inches diameter x 2 inches height with oil. Preheat your oven to 200 degrees Celsius (392 degrees Fahrenheit) for 15 minutes.Sieve 1 cup whole wheat flour (you can also use all-purpose flour) and 3 tablespoons cocoa powder. Use good quality cocoa powder. Keep a plate or tray below the sieve.Add a pinch of salt and 1/2 teaspoon baking soda.Sieve the ingredients on to a plate.Keep the sieved dry ingredients aside.In another pan or bowl, take ¾ cup sugar. I have used raw unrefined cane sugar, however regular white sugar can also be used. Add 1 cup cold water. The water has to be cold and chilled.Stir with a small whisk till the sugar dissolves.ow add 1/4 cup oil. I added sunflower oil. I would not suggest adding butter as a few readers did tell me that the butter solidifies and it becomes difficult to get it to a homogenous mixture.Stir briskly so that everything is mixed well.It should be a homogenous mixture.Next add 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Stir again. You could even use 1 tablespoon of apple cider vinegar or white vinegar in place of lemon juice.Now add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract. You can also add chocolate extract or chocolate essence instead of vanilla.Mix very well. Add the sieved dry ingredients to the wet mixture. Using a wired whisk, mix everything well.There should be no lumps in the eggless cake batter. The batter is slightly thin and not thick.

BAKKING BATTER--Pour the eggless chocolate cake batter into the prepared cake pan. Tap the sides so that the extra air bubbles are let out.Bake the eggless chocolate cake in a preheated oven for 200 degrees Celsius (392 degrees Fahrenheit) for 35 to 40 mins.Since temperatures vary from oven to oven be sure to keep an eye on it. Do not open the oven door many times. Only open it after three-fourth of the baking is done.For baking in a convection mode of a microwave oven, preheat the oven to 180 degrees celsius (355 degrees Fahrenheit) for 15 minutes.Then bake at 180 degrees celsius (355 degrees Fahrenheit) for 30 to 35 minutes.For doneness check the chocolate cake with a bamboo skewer or toothpick. The bamboo skewer should come out clean.Once the eggless chocolate cake becomes warm or cools down, remove and place it on a wired rack.If the toothpick is sticky with the batter, then place the eggless cake back in the oven and continue to bake for some more minutes. Before frosting, let the eggless cake cool completely.

FROSTING CAKE--This frosting recipe makes for a thin frosting. Take 1 tablespoon sunflower oil, 1/4 cup almond milk and 1/4 cup raw sugar in a small saucepan.To make a slightly thick frosting, add 2 tablespoons almond milk. You could use any nut milk, vegan milk in place of almond milk.Keep the pan on stove top and begin to heat on a low flame. Mix very well and stirring often heat the almond milk, so that the sugar is dissolved. Do not boil the almond milk, but just make it lightly hot enough to dissolve the sugar. Keeping the heat to a low, when the almond milk is just lightly hot and after all the sugar has been dissolved, add 3 tablespoons cocoa powder.With a small wired whisk mix and stir so that the cocoa powder gets mixed evenly.The cocoa frosting is ready now. Switch off the flame.While still hot, pour the frosting on the top and sides of the eggless chocolate cake.With an offset spatula or a silicon spatula spread the icing evenly all over on top and the sides of the eggless chocolate cake. You can also slice the eggless cake in half and spread frosting in the center and then on the top.Usually I wrap a medium sized plate with aluminum foil and then place the cake on it. This makes the frosting work easier. Keep the eggless cake covered in the fridge for the frosting to set for a couple of hours.You can use a dome-shaped bowl to cover the cake. Make sure there is enough space between the cake and the bowl which you are using for covering.The frosting will set after some hours. I kept it in the fridge overnight.The next day,I topped the eggless chocolate cake with some cacao shavings. You can even add sprinkles or sliced nuts.

ICING CAKE-- You can also sift some icing sugar and cocoa powder on the eggless cake. 

CONCLUSION--This step is optional.The eggless chocolate cake is ready to be served.